**
Jackpot.
One points.
**
Iz raining!
Dinner.
It's what's for dinner.
Now, I've been up since 10:00,
so I'm turning in.
Enjoy, my babies.
ANNOUNCER: Channel 36
is incredibly proud
to present our midnight movie,
The Hobbit:
The Desolation of Smowg.
(gasps) Stan, it's Smowg.
He's about to be desolated.
Stan?
Huh.
No.
Uh-oh.
What the hell are you guys
doing down here?
Uh, you know how you never
learned what lacrosse is?
Yeah?
Well, this is it.
This is lacrosse.
**
* Good morning, U.S.A. *
* I got a feelin' that
it's gonna be a wonderful day *
* The sun in the sky
has a smile on his face *
* And he's shinin' a salute
to the American race *
* Oh, boy, it's swell to say *
-* Good -- *
-* Good morning, U.S.A. *
Aah!
* Good morning, U.S.A. *
So, every night
after I'm asleep,
you come down
to the crawl space?
I don't understand.
A crawl space is an area
between floors,
where crawling is
not just allowed,
it's encouraged --
I know what a crawl space is,
Stan.
Did you, though?
I mean,
why are you eating down here?
Are you hiding
from me?
Just give it to me
straight.
We're still hungry
'cause your dinner stinks!
-It sucks!
-Whoa!
-Easy!
-Hey!
-(chuckles)
-Uh, we hate you.
-You're a bad lady!
-Jeff!
Alright, that's it.
Go to the dark part
of the crawl space
-for 10 minutes.
-It's ridiculous.
The dinner was bad?
I followed the recipe
to a "T."
It was Certified "Yim Yam Yummo"
by Rachael Ray herself!
It's not that
your cooking's bad...
Gee, how do we put
it gently, gang?
-Your food is soulless.
-Totally uninspired.
-It's got no heart!
-Oh.
Sorry, Mom.
JEFF: It's poop food!
Jeff!
20 minutes!
JEFF: Life is so unfair!
Don't feel bad, Mom.
Cooking's just not your thing.
You can always
join us here,
for what we call
"Cracker Hour."
Oh, but it's so much more
than crackers.
There's cheeses,
toasted Pringles,
and sumptuous
summer sausages.
Hillshire Farms has put
more love into this Li'l Smoky
than in a thousand
of your "dinners."
I don't want to be
bad at cooking.
I want to be
good at cooking.
Why not do a cooking course
at the Learning Annex?
You tell them what
you want to learn,
they look it up on the Internet,
and then they teach it to you.
You know what?
I will do that.
Sorry I drove you guys
underground.
JEFF: I scratched myself
on a nail!
(chuckles) Gotta watch out
for those nails.
Hold up --
do my eyes spy
a Li'l Smoky
in the dirt?
-Dad, are you okay?
-There's a nail in his head!
-Why isn't he speaking?
-Somebody do something!
This is literally
the first time tonight...
-HAYLEY: Aw, Dad!
-STEVE: He's so still!
...I've reached for the
Li'l Smokys and not bumped
-into Stan's head.
-HAYLEY: Blink if you
can hear me!
-STEVE: He's so calm!
-HAYLEY: He's not blinking!
**
Don't worry.
Stan's walking around
and everything,
but he hasn't said a word,
so you know that nail's
touching something important.
You want to talk about
touching a nerve --
you guys not liking my cooking
has really rattled me.
Yes, yes it is me.
Miss Nadine.
Yeah, Nadine!
Today, we're making a classic
spaghetti and meatballs.
Every step is on
these recipe cards,
except for one --
enjoy yourself!
I'll just follow
the steps on the card,
if that's okay with you.
Oh, man,
that babe Danuta's here!
I'm gonna make a cool face
while I chop my onion.
Is she looking?
Is this face cool?
Hmm.
My cup has a dent in it.
Won't be accurate.
I'll have to use
48 teaspoons.
(gasps)
Ms. Nadine!
Dick's not measuring his salt.
Oh. Well, that's fine.
He just squeezed a lemon
in there.
That's not in
the recipe.
Your back was turned
and he squeezed it!
-I saw!
-I thought a hit of lemon
would brighten up
the marinara.
Mmm.
Ooh.
That's a nice change, Dick.
There's no lemon anywhere
in this recipe.
Has the whole world
gone crazy?
(sobbing)
Danuta...
Look at me,
Danuta.
**
The nail has only pierced
his speech centers.
I can yank it out with
my Leatherman, no problem,
but not until the brain swelling
goes down.
Bigger question --
would you be willing
to let me have the brain?
Keep in mind, I'd replace it
with a bag of sand
so his overall weight
would not change --
No.
How long will it take
the swelling to go down?
One week.
I'll put this tiny safety cone
on it for now,
but as your physician,
I must advise that you,
as soon as possible,
get him a fun new hat.
It's a Bugle snack.
Mm. It's delicious.
Hooraaaaay!
Mmm. I know
I keep saying this,
but, to quote
Dom DeLuise's tombstone,
great meatball.
And...
what is this?
It's also a meatball.
Oh.
It's good.
Hey!
Tell me the truth.
I can take it.
Okay.
It's a little bland.
(screams)
-It was your recipe!
-(glass shatters)
And I followed it
to the letter!
-(glass shatters)
-I want a 40% refund!
Get her out of here!
(grunting)
Let me tell you something.
Oh, yeah? What?
This whole Annex
is gonna burn,
and you're gonna
be in it.
You can't burn brick,
bitch!
Oh, I'll find a fire
hot enough.
You're gonna pop
like popcorn.
Pop!
Pop-pop-pop-pop-pop!
(jazz music plays)
Now it's time
for a new segment
that I'm really excited
about...
-So (bleep) excited.
-...where I travel the globe
interviewing
famous chefs.
Here's me with
Patagonian super chef,
Francis Mallmann.
Super chef?
As I say in my book,
The Seven Fires,
the problem
with the home cook
is that they are enslaved
by the recipes,
by their electric stoves.
MALLMANN: In the out of doors,
where I cook,
man is returned
to what is essential.
The fire Promethean.
It's all in my book,
The Seven Fires.
Well, the results are in.
Slap bracelets are back.
What the hell?!
Damn thing made me look
like an idiot.
Wow, you're reading
Francis Mallmann?
Yeah, but his cooking is all
about trusting your instincts,
and I don't know
if I have those.
What if you could
learn instincts
from someone
like Francis Mallmann?
Oh, my God.
Do you know him?
Yes, but we're estranged.
I said someone like him.
I have a persona
that borrows heavily
from Francis --
duplicates him really,
probably the source
of the rift --
and I do know
that persona.
Would you be willing to go
all the way to Patagonia
to learn how to cook?
Roger, I'd go to
freakin' L.L. Bean
if it helped me be
a better cook.
Ha! That's hilarious.
Although maybe you
aren't being hilarious.
Now, Francine,
when we get there,
this guy's gonna be me.
I want to be
clear about that.
This persona and I
are different,
but I am him.
I can imagine
how jarring it is
to find me around every corner
in your life,
and I want this
to be a smoother deal for you.
(birds chirping)
This is it, right?
I'm about to look over,
and he'll be there,
and you'll be gone.
Yeah.
You know, I don't usually
get to say goodbye.
Well, thanks for
flying down with me.
Even if you had to come anyway
to be the guy.
Thanks.
I'm Frenchus Mallmank,
not Francis Mallmann,
and I'm going to challenge
everything you know
about cooking.
(gasps)
Goodbye!
(sighs) Alright.
That's enough
turning around.
**
NARRATOR: Frenchus Mallmank
rejected the pathway
of fine French cuisine,
and dedicated himself to
powerful, primitive cooking.
On his island in Patagonia,
with his dedicated students,
he makes incredible meals
using little more
than fire and salt...
and the world
has taken notice.
(exasperatedly)
Would you shut up!
Why are you narrating
everything?
And the narrator
withdrew,
shutting himself off
from human connection --
Good!
I think that's good.
There.
That is how you build...
the Eight Fires.
**
Yes.
One more than Francis.
Now I'll teach my techniques,
all leading up
to a grand feast.
I will try each of your dishes,
finishing many of them,
and see how much
you learned.
Lesson one!
I'm sealing this fish
in the rich cream mud
that is here by my feet.
When I cook this in the fire,
the mud will
hold in the moisture.
-It will also muffle
the small screams of the fish...
-(high-pitched squealing)
...as it suffers and dies.
Oh! How many cups
of mud is that?
You have long fingers,
and it looks like a lot.
No cups!
No recipes!
Cooking is about
being free and alive.
No!
Eh?
You like my trebuchet?
**
-(piano plays)
-Alright.
Let's find Dad a hat
to cover up that nail.
(piano continues)
You like
the piano, Dad?
You can wait here
while we shop for hats,
and I won't have
to look at the nail.
Hey, look who it is!
(piano continues)
-10 minute break.
-(piano stops)
Just enough time for a cigarette
and a tuna-fish sandwich.
(piano plays)
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
I am manager
of this Nordstrom,
and that is simply
gorgeous playing.
You're hired.
And you're fired.
Does Dick's Sporting Goods
have piano players?
Dad can't play piano.
It's the nail.
It's unlocking him.
My nail gives me the power to
know all domestic flight times
within the United States.
United 12 leaves Dulles
for O'Hare in 30 minutes.
No. Not even close.
(sizzling)
Come, my acolytes.
Taste.
You just got a bunch
of dirt in it.
That's earth,
and earth is flavor and passion.
Think of how many people
had sex on this earth.
And on Earth!
(whispering) I found
a little piece that's clean.
A little dirt for ya!
-(fire crackling)
-To cook meat over flame,
to me, I believe truly --
Can't find the neck hole
in this poncho. There it is.
The best technique
is spatchcocking.
(whispering)
I've done that.
It's when you
intentionally graze
someone's penis
with your backpack.
Spatchcocking is when you
flatten an animal's ribcage
so that it cooks more evenly.
I'll show you.
It's all about finding just
the right point of pressure,
feeling it,
making that connection,
and then spatchcock!
This works
with any meat.
Wild hare...
river otter...
two chickens.
Usually, you want to prep it,
get the guts out,
but I was just
feeling it too hard.
Had to do a live spatchcock.
ROGER: So it goes.
Eight fires, etcetera, etcetera.
With food,
you need a little wine.
This, to me,
is a little wine.
This is the largest size
bottle of wine
that isn't legally a vat.
It is called...
a nebuchadnezzar.
I drink four of these a day,
just like Charlemagne did,
and I'll outlive you all.
What is it the poets
say about wine?
(belches)
What?
Did you say something?
Was I still going?
Well, you're a fool
if you don't saber
your nebuchadnezzars.
I can't tell if it's done.
Maybe I should
check real quick.
ROGER: It's ruined.
The precious juice
has been drained.
Taste yours.
Now try mine.
Mmm.
It's so good.
You're resisting
my lessons.
I hope you can show me something
at the big feast.
Now, if you excuse me,
I must slumber
and dream of
spatchcocking T-rexes
with my childhood friend,
Jean-Baptiste.
(piano plays)
(giggles) Business
has never been better,
and it's all thanks to you!
Sales figures correspond 100%
with your piano playing!
I don't want any
of this stuff.
(up-tempo piano plays)
I'm buying
10 winter coats!
(laughs)
You hooked another one,
Nailhead!
And you know how big
the margins are on coats.
(chuckles)
Oh, oh!
By the way, I got a call
from corporate earlier.
They're considering turning
the Langley Falls location
into the new flagship...
(piano continues)
Yes.
Flagship.
That's what all this
has been about.
Now, play me
to the break room,
this time in the style
of a silent-movie villain.
(staccato notes play)
Javier, your Potatoes Three Ways
is delicious, inspired.
What would you say
to another three-ways
in my big fur bed?
-No.
-You deny me?
My passion grows like a bonfire!
Anywho, moving on.
I was having
a tough time at first,
but I think I finally
cooked from...here.
Promising.
Where are they?
Where are what?
The measuring cups
that you used to make this!
You're right!
I cheated.
I've been doing
so terribly.
Oh, why can't I understand
how to cook?!
Who cares about that?!
I launched those measuring cups
all the way to Bear Island.
If you went there,
it's possible "they"
followed your scent
back here.
Who?
(bears growl)
Acolytes,
fly me to safety!
JAVIER: We'll tell the world
your story!
But I already told the world
my story.
(bears growl)
Roger, what do we do?
(whispering) Stand perfectly
still and don't make a sound.
(sniffing)
-Yes, it's me.
-(roars)
(screaming)
**
-(growls)
-(screaming continues)
**
(coughs)
That damn bear
spatchcocked me.
I wish I wasn't here
right now.
I wish I was
in a restaurant.
**
Roger!
Are you okay?
They told me Bear Island
would be a problem
when I bought this place.
"Leave the bears to me,"
I said.
What did I even mean?
I didn't have a plan.
This is all my fault.
It's not your fault.
You weren't there
when I bought the island.
I mean,
if I hadn't cheated,
the bears never
would have come here.
You killed me.
Let's see how badly
you're hurt.
What's the damage?
Will I ever be able
to rollerblade again?
(sighing) Oh.
That bear really got you.
We need to get you
off this island,
but the boat is gone.
There's a backup boat
on the other side of the island.
Oh, my God!
Wait, why do you
have a backup boat?
You should be asking,
why do I have three boats.
Because I used to,
but then I ended up selling one.
-(grunts)
-Ow. Ow. Ow.
Wait!
My nebuchadnezzars!
-(glass clinking)
-Ow. Ow.
Wait, my gaucho hat!
(strained) You know, Francine,
I think I'm ready to die.
there's just one last thing
I want to do --
drink a live-forever potion.
You're not gonna die.
We've reached the boat.
Wait.
There's somebody in it.
ROGER: Oh, no.
It's Francis Mallmann.
You stole my identity,
Frenchus Mallmank,
and now I steal
your boat!
(piano plays)
**
Money! Oh, money!
Oh, money!
(chuckles)
We're rich!
This branch of Nordstrom
is rich!
-Oh, no. The family.
-It's been a week.
We have to take
the nail out now.
Otherwise, he'll die,
right, Dr. Kalgary?
Sounds right.
Then you must take it out.
I'd never want
Nailhead to die.
Because, you see,
it wasn't about the money
or the coat sales --
the highest in
the tri-county area.
It was about the music.
So before you remove the nail,
could I hear just one last song?
Dad!
One more song!
(piano plays melancholy tune)
No boats. No food.
We're both gonna
starve here.
I'm surprised
I made it this far
with the amount of glass
I've been drinking.
Before we die,
why did you cheat
with the measuring cups?
I didn't want to mess up,
I guess.
What would it mean
if you messed up?
That there
was something wrong
with the measurements
or the recipe.
And what if you messed up
without a recipe?
What if it was just you,
cooking,
making your own decisions?
It'd mean that there was
something wrong with me,
that I was the failure.
And that's what therapists
call a babababingo.
(coughs)
Roger, this leg
is starting to turn.
I think
I should cut it off.
If you're gonna cut off my leg,
you need to cook it.
Roger, that's crazy!
It'll keep me from dying
of blood poisoning
and give us both
something to eat.
Oh, I don't know.
There is no recipe
for cooking my leg,
no safety net.
Show me who you are
and feed me me.
(piano continues)
**
(groaning)
I had a lemon.
**
It's delicious, Franny.
-(body thuds)
-(dissonant notes play)
Hey, I'm back, baby.
No! Put it back in!
Put it back in!
(manager screams)
-(screaming continues)
-(customers shout indistinctly)
Don't worry!
I'll make you a monster!
Billy, get the van!
Ah, it feels good
to have conquered this.
I was letting
my fear of failing
make me a boring cook.
(bears growl)
(screams)
No! Don't fight them.
Feed them.
(bear growls)
ROGER: Hey, it's Francis.
The smell of
your soulful cooking
lured him back, Francine.
And I've hit
my goal weight.
Roger, your body's gonna
grow back, right?
It always has before.
Oh, God!
What if it doesn't?!
Have a good night!
-- Captions by VITAC --